# Third Blog

Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA) is an approach of analyzing and investigating data sets to summarize their main characteristics, usually using data visualization methods. We need to think about how best to analyze and interpret data sets. The main purpose of EDA is to help observe data before making any assumptions. It can help identify obvious errors, find the internal structure of data, extract important variables, detect outliers, test hypotheses, and build the preliminary models. EDA can let us understand patterns of data better and find interesting relationships between variables. 

There are main steps for EDA as follows:

First, explore data and find problems/requirements. Through exploring the raw data, we can try to understand the data and collect as much context as possible to focus on our efforts. Then need to clarify our problems/equirements, and see whether the information provided by the data can solve our concerns. On the other hand, if the problems are not very clear and specific, we could also do EDA, so that we may get some interesting findings.

Second, check and process data. After we decided how we are going to work with data, we can begin to check and process data. Checking if there are missing values; if there are outliers; if there are duplicate values. Then deciding to retain or delete the duplicate values or outliers, and delete or fill the missing values. For example, if we want to discover the behavior pattern of the user, the user performs the same operation at different time, this could help us obtain this user's behavior preference which is our goal, we can keep these duplicate values. 

Third, use techniques and tools to do data visualization and provide the descriptions for our tables and plots. Depends on data types (categorical, quantitative), we can choose the methods to summarize data. Aim to categorical data, we often use the contingency tables and bar plots to show frequency or counts of categories. For quantitative data, if it is univariate, we could measure the center (mean, median) and spread (variance, standard deviation, quartiles, IQR). If it is multivariate, we could measure the linear relationship (covariance, correlation) as well as summaries on subgroups of data. Graphical summaries for quantitative data can be provided through different plots, such as histogram, kernel smoother, empirical cumulative distribution function (ECDF), scatter plot, create a visual of the correlations.

In my opinion, it is very important to use EDA techniques to obtain statistical graphics which often reveal the internal structure of data, and provide a better understanding of data set variables and the relationships between them. According to the statistical graphics, we need to summarize the features and illustrate the results, as well as trying to look for the interesting findings. 
